---
layout: default
---

## Fall 2025 CS 511: Advanced Data Management

**Time:** 2:00 PM - 3:15 PM (Tue/Thu)  
**Location:** 1310 Digital Computer Laboratory ([Google Map](https://maps.app.goo.gl/9G3fGhgtiVWJ5wWEA))  
See this course in &nbsp; [[Canvas]](https://canvas.illinois.edu/courses/60656) 
&nbsp; [[Course Explorer]](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2025/fall/CS/511)

**Instructor:** Yongjoo Park (https://yongjoopark.com): 
<ul style="margin-top: -15px;">
  <li>Email: yongjoo@g.illinois.edu</li>
  <li>Office Hours: After class in Yongjoo's office (Rm 2114, Siebel for CS)</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-top: -15px;"> <b>TA 1:</b> Kiran Hombal (khombal2@illinois.edu)</p>
<ul style="margin-top: -15px;">
  <li>Office Hours: See Canvas</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-top: -15px;"> <b>TA 2:</b> Xinying Zheng (xz112@illinois.edu)</p>
<ul style="margin-top: -15px;">
  <li>Office Hours: See Canvas</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-top: -15px;"> <b> Prerequisites </b> </p>
<ul style="margin-top: -15px;">
  <li><b>Background:</b> CS411 (Database) or equivalent.</li>
  <li><b>Programming:</b> Proficiency in one of the following programming languages: C, Java, etc. We don't provide programming practices; you should be able to write code independently.</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-top: -15px;"> <b> Class Structure </b> </p>
<ul style="margin-top: -15px;">
  <li>Overview by Instructor: 5 mins</li>
  <li>Student Presentation (if any): 25 mins (including Q&A)</li>
  <li>Instructor Presentation: 40 mins</li>
  <li>Quiz: 5 mins</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-top: -15px;"> <b>Your main workload as a student will be </b> </p>
<ul style="margin-top: -15px;">
  <li>Understanding papers (one quiz per class; two midterms)</li>
  <li>Participating in group projects (3 MPs)</li>
  <li>(Optional) presenting a paper for 4% extra credits</li>
</ul>



[[Slides in Google Drive]](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1yiDSSQ76z4lAXSoScKcPk1l2smiJKKHS?usp=sharing) &nbsp; &nbsp; 
*Accessible to all Illinois people; Permission denied? See [this page](https://help.uillinois.edu/TDClient/42/UIUC/Requests/ServiceDet?ID=135).*


<br/>

### Weekly Schedule

Paper links and detailed topics will be updated as the semester progresses.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTE1MJGGVXRWwuj480WTmNhDCa-ZKFszmOXrX5MiDUwt0rXXylud8vCR8EqNvJSIPdxTYnhHAbAvf1W/pubhtml?gid=0&amp;single=true&amp;widget=false&amp;headers=false&amp;chrome=false" width="640" height="660"></iframe>

<br/>

## Evaluation

**Review Carefully:**  Most students receive full scores in Quizzes and MPs. 
Midterms and the Final Presentation scores vary more.


<h3 style="margin-top: 20px;">Overview</h3>

**Regular Components**

- Evaluating Other Student Presentations: 4%
- Quizzes: 10%
- Midterms: 40% (20% + 20%)
- Projects (3 MPs): 39%
- Final Presentation: 3%
- Participation: 4%

**Extra Credits**

- Student Presentation: 2% (min) - 4% (max); evaluation based on peers


<h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">Evaluating Other Student Presentations (4%)</h3>

The 4% is divided into two components: 1% for proposal evaluation and 3% for evaluating in-class presentations.

**Proposal Evaluation (1%):** Students will evaluate presentation proposals on EasyChair. Each student must complete at least 2 out of 4 assigned reviews to receive the full score (across 1/2 and 2/2 submissions).

**Evaluating In-Class Presentations (3%):** There are 21 (9 + 12) student presentation slots. For each presentation, you should provide peer evaluation using a Likert scale between 1 and 5 via Google Forms. To receive full credit (3%), you must submit evaluations for at least 50% of the presentations (e.g., 50 if there are 100 presentations in total). If you submit less, you will receive partial credit (e.g., if you submit 25 evaluations among 100 total presentations, you will receive 25/50*3% = 1.5%).

~~There are 21 (9 + 12) student presentation slots. For each presentation, you should provide peer evaluation using a Likert scale between 1 and 5. To receive full credit (4%), you must submit evaluations for at least 50% of the presentations (e.g., 50 if there are 100 presentations in total). If you submit less, you will receive partial credit (e.g., if you submit 25 evaluations among 100 total presentations, you will receive 25/50*4% = 2.0%).~~

Warning: If you submit constant scores (e.g., 5/5 for every presentation), it will be considered as "no submission" and your Participation score may get penalized.

[[Presentation Evaluation Form]](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfC5LKXZgzp629MNVytQFcMzxsEIsN_54jYfMZzUvIX0A8XAg/viewform?usp=dialog)


<h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">Quizzes (10%)</h3>

In the middle of each class, there will be a short quiz. You will receive a full 10% by scoring 70/100 (or 70%) in the quiz portion. Specifically, to calculate the final score, your individual quiz scores will be summed and normalized to have a max 100 points (which is called a raw score); then, the final score will be calculated as:

    (final quiz score; max 100) = min(raw score / 70 * 100, 100)

For regular absences, no make-up quizzes will be provided (so come to class!). For Verified Absences, we will provide make-up quizzes. Sample quizzes will be provided in the first and second classes.

"70/100" is to accommodate unexpected absences (e.g., mild cold, too busy for other courses, family travel). No additional absences will be allowed except for extreme circumstances (e.g., seriously ill, contagious disease, tragic events); in these cases, please contact the main instructor directly to discuss and/or adjust your course workload.

Quiz Evaluation: You can receive up to two points in each quiz. If you submit an answer (in class), you will get one point always (even though your answer is wrong). If your answer is correct, you will receive one additional point, thereby two points in total for that quiz.

*Quiz scores will be made available immediately.*


<h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">Midterms (40%: 20% + 20%)</h3>

We have two midterms: the first on 10/9 and the second on 12/4. Exam questions are based on the quizzes. Online make-up exams are offered for important events (e.g., family travel) two days after each exam day with a 10% relative point reduction (thus, perfect answers will receive 90 out of 100, if the total is 100). The point reduction may be removed if the reason is something serious and unavoidable (e.g., tragic events, serious illness).

*Your midterm scores will be released within one week. This delay is to accomodate the students who may be taking online exams.*


<h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">Projects (39%): two individual and one group</h3>

The first two MPs will be individual projects. The last one will be group-based. ~~Four~~ Three people in each group.

Late submissions will receive a 20% point reduction every day. For example, if you submit within the first day after the deadline, you will receive up to 80/100. After five days, you will receive 0 points. We will check both report submission times (if required) and the last timestamps of code changes (e.g., on GitHub).

Regarding the group project, you will also submit a peer-review to incorporate your participation.


<h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">Final Presentation (3%)</h3>

Details about the final presentation will be provided later in the semester.


<h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">Participation (4%)</h3>

Your in-class participation will be evaluated based on your participation in questions/discussions. If you ask questions or participate in discussions either in class or **online**, claim your contribution using [this Google Form]() within two days of the class. You should not falsely claim your contribution (e.g., by submitting forms without actually asking questions), which will be in violation of the code.


<h3 style="margin-top: 40px;">Extra Credit: Student Presentation (4%)</h3>

**Presentation Scores**

You will receive extra credit based on the peer evaluations by other students. To ensure most students receive high-enough scores, the following (rather complex) scheme will be used.

    (your presentation score; max 100) = \sum_i^N (normalized score from student-i) / N

where (normalized score from student-i) is obtained by normalizing all the scores submitted by student-i to have mean 93 and standard deviation 5. That is, even if student-i submits relatively bad scores (say 2/5 on average), his/her negative scores do not affect your overall score since those scores will be anyway normalized to have the same mean and standard deviation. The same logic applies to another student (say student-j) who tends to submit higher scores (say 4/5 on average) since his/her scores will also be normalized to have the same mean and standard deviation.

*Your presentation scores will only be released almost at end of the semester
due to normalization process.*


<br/>

# Other Materials

[Academic Integrity Policy and Procedure](https://studentcode.illinois.edu/article1/part4/1-401/)

[Anti Racism and Inclusivity Statement](https://ws.engr.illinois.edu/sitemanager/getfile.asp?id=1595)

[Accessibility and Accommodations](https://oae.illinois.edu/our-services/accessibility-and-accommodations/)

[Religious Observations](https://odos.illinois.edu/resources/students/religious-observances)

[Sexual Misconduct Reporting Obligations](https://wecare.illinois.edu/faq/employees/#:~:text=Policy%20and%20Reporting-,The%20University%20of%20Illinois%20is%20committed%20to%20combating%20sexual%20misconduct,the%20University's%20Title%20IX%20Office.)


**Statement on CS CARES and CS Values and Code of Conduct**

All members of the Illinois Computer Science department - faculty, staff, and students - are expected to adhere to the CS Values and Code of Conduct. The CS CARES Committee is available to serve as a resource to help people who are concerned about or experience a potential violation of the Code. If you experience such issues, please contact the CS CARES Committee. The instructors of this course are also available for issues related to this class.